samples: Bluetooth: Demonstrate MTU update (#53593)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/bluetooth/mtu_update/README.rst

.. _bluetooth_mtu_update_sample:

Bluetooth: MTU Update
#####################

Q&A:
****

  Question: What do I have to do to update my ATT MTU?

| Answer: To get an ATT MTU of x octets, do the following:
| Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_L2CAP_TX_MTU` to at least x
| Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE` to at least x + L2CAP header
  size (4 octets).
| Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE` to at least x + L2CAP header +
  SDU length field length (6 octets) if using
  :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_EATT`.
| Ensure the remote side supports the same MTUs.

>   Question: I only want to *send* large packets. I don't need to receive large.

Reviewer: `large ones` or `large packets`

be set to a different value, but the MTU of the server must be greater or equal
to the MTU of the client.

According to the Bluetooth specification, [#mtu]_ MTU is the maximum size of
SDUs.
However, in Zephyr, we can assume that it also represents the maximum size of
the PDUs. Because, in Bluetooth LE, [#sud_encapsulation]_ unless we are using L2CAP dynamic
channels, SDUs are not segmented.
The Kconfig symbol used to configure the size of the TX MTU is
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_L2CAP_TX_MTU`. There is no Kconfig symbol to update
the size of the RX MTU, because Zephyr uses a buffer pool for ACL RX buffers
coming from the controller.
The L2CAP RX MTU is defined as the maximum size of ACL RX buffers minus the
L2CAP header size.
That maximum ACL RX buffer size is configured with
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE`.
The resulting L2CAP RX MTU will be the value of this Kconfig symbol minus the
L2CAP header size.

.. figure:: img/mtu.svg
     :align: center
     :alt: Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

     Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

Hardware Setup
**************

> This sample use two application, two devices need to be setup.

Reviewer: applications

The first one should be flashed with the central and the second one with the
peripheral.

The two devices need to be close enough to be able to connect.

Building and Running
********************

This sample can be found under :zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/mtu_update` in
the Zephyr tree.

See :ref:`bluetooth samples section <bluetooth-samples>` for details.

If the devices are close enough, the central should connect to the peripheral

> and send his MTU to the other device. If the MTU exchange succeed, the central

Reviewer: succeeds

should subscribe and then the peripheral will send a large notification. Right
after receiving the notification the central should unsubscribe.

> Here are the output you should have on the devices:

Reviewer: `Here is the output` or `Here are the outputs`.

According to the Bluetooth specification, [#mtu]_ MTU is the maximum size of
SDUs.
However, in Zephyr, we can assume that it also represents the maximum size of
the PDUs. Because, in Bluetooth LE, [#sud_encapsulation]_ unless we are using L2CAP dynamic
channels, SDUs are not segmented.
The Kconfig symbol used to configure the size of the TX MTU is
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_L2CAP_TX_MTU`. There is no Kconfig symbol to update
the size of the RX MTU, because Zephyr uses a buffer pool for ACL RX buffers
coming from the controller.
The L2CAP RX MTU is defined as the maximum size of ACL RX buffers minus the
L2CAP header size.
That maximum ACL RX buffer size is configured with
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE`.
The resulting L2CAP RX MTU will be the value of this Kconfig symbol minus the
L2CAP header size.

.. figure:: img/mtu.svg
     :align: center
     :alt: Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

     Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

Hardware Setup
**************

This sample use two applications, two devices need to be setup.
The first one should be flashed with the central and the second one with the
peripheral.

> The two devices need to be close enough to be able to connect.

Reviewer 2: It's a bit hard to understand what is meant by this sentence. I think we should reword so it's clear it's a feature.

```suggestion
The two devices will connect only if they are close to each other, thanks to RSSI filtering.
```

.. _bluetooth_mtu_update_sample:

Bluetooth: MTU Update
#####################

Q&A:
****

  Question: What do I have to do to update my ATT MTU?

| Answer: To get an ATT MTU of x octets, do the following:
| Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_L2CAP_TX_MTU` to at least x

> | Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE` to at least x + L2CAP header

Reviewer 2: What is the actual number for the size of the L2CAP header? I think we should have the number here.

SDUs.
However, in Zephyr, we can assume that it also represents the maximum size of
the PDUs. Because, in Bluetooth LE, [#]_ unless we are using L2CAP dynamic
channels, SDUs are not segmented.
The Kconfig symbol used to configure the size of the TX MTU is
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_L2CAP_TX_MTU`. There is no Kconfig symbol to update
the size of the RX MTU, because Zephyr uses a buffer pool for ACL RX buffers
coming from the controller.
The L2CAP RX MTU depend on the maximum size of ACL RX buffers. This value is
configured by the Kconfig symbol :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE`.
The resulting L2CAP RX MTU will be the value of this Kconfig symbol minus the
L2CAP header size.

.. figure:: img/mtu.svg
     :align: center
     :alt: Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

     Diagram of the MTUs and their corresponding Kconfig symbols

.. [#] Bluetooth Core Specification v. 5.3: Vol. 3, Part F, 3.4.2
.. [#] Bluetooth Core Specification v. 5.3: Vol. 3, Part A, 5.1
.. [#] Bluetooth Core Specification v. 5.3: Vol. 3, Part A, 7.3

Building and Running
********************

This sample can be found under :zephyr_file:`samples/bluetooth/mtu_update` in

> the Zephyr tree.

Reviewer: can you add a section on the hardware setup, e.g. that you need to flash this part to a device ,and that part to another device. 
and a little text about what you're expected to see if it works.
